#labels Featured,Phase-Deploy
Installation instructions for hosting your own Out of Eve website.

=Requirements=
 * Web server with PHP 5 (curl module enabled)
 * MySQL

=Prerequesits=
 * [http://eve.no-ip.de/inc101/ MySQL Eve static data dump]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/ooe/downloads/list Eve icons]

=Get the source=
The source is available either as a released package on the [http://code.google.com/p/ooe/downloads/list Downloads] page, or you may check it out of Subversion directly (see the [http://code.google.com/p/ooe/source/checkout Source] page).

==Subversion notes==
If checking the code out of SVN, trunk will always be up-to-date with features and updates making their way into the next release and should be stable. 

Various branches may be available, however these are normally being actively worked on and although they may contain fixes, features and updates not yet available in trunk, things may break.

=Installation=

==Files==
Installation is quite straight-forward. Either extract and upload the entire contents of the `outofeve-x.x,zip` source package to your web server, or export the branch you want directly out of SVN.

Extract and upload the contents of `outofeve-eveimages-x.x.zip` to the same location (in the root of your OOE website, you should have an `eveimages`).


==Database==
When you have the MySQL database dump imported, you will need to run the included "`sql/additional-tables.sql`" SQL script, which will create tables for the missing manufacturing completion status descriptions and corporation roles.

In addition to importing CCP's database dump, you will need to create an additional database for Out of Eve's users and Eve account details. Once you have a  database created and ready, execute the contents of 
"`sql/install-db.sql`" on that database to create the required tables.

==Initial Configuration==
Before you begin configuring settings, create a copy of 
"`includes/config.default.php`" named "`includes/config.php`".

Whip open your new "`includes/config.php`", and make sure the settings are all suitable and match your environment. Most things should not need changing. Just make sure the "`$config['site']['url']`" option is correct; it should be the relative path to your Out of Eve site. For example, if you're running it from:

  `http://my.website/outofeve/`

Then "`$config['site']['url']`" should be set to "`/outofeve`".


==API Key Security==

If you want to encrypt your Eve API keys, you will need to create an encryption key file. This is a simple plain text file containing nothing but a keyword which will be used to encrypt API keys. This file should be kept well away from any www-published paths. An example for creating a key file on `*`nix:

  `$ echo "mykey9876" > /root/ooekeypass`

You can then configure `$config['site']['keypass']` as follows:

  `$config['site']['keypass'] = '/root/ooekeypass';`

If you do not want to encrypt API keys, leave the keypass option empty:

  `$config['site']['keypass'] = '';`


==Cache Paths==
Another option you may wish to change would be "`$config['eve']['cache_dir']`". This option controls where the downloaded API XML files are stored. I'd recommend you store these outside of any www-available paths, for example:

  `$config['eve']['cache_dir'] = '/var/cache/outofeve/'`

Just make sure the path is writable by the web server (either chmod or chown the directory with relevent options). By default this directory is just "`cache/`" where you uploaded Out of Eve.

Storing these cache files outside of the website path improves security and reduces the chances of someone getting hold of your character data (no passwords, API keys, user IDs etc are stored here, though).

===Market Data Cache===
You will also need to manually create a "matket" directory within your cache directory. Using the above cache directory exmaple, this directory would be located at `/var/cache/outofeve/market`.


=Conclusion=
Once you are happy with `config.php`, the Eve data has been imported, your Out of Eve database has been created, and the `eveimages` directory has been filled, you should be ready to go.

You should now be able to visit your website in a browser, register a user, and being adding your EVE accounts.